README.md, before:

# Dmitry Demenchuk does dotfiles

The single dot that has it all.

Clone the repository into **~/dotfiles**: `git clone https://github.com/mrded/dotfiles.git ~/dotfiles`

## NeoVim
- Install Neovim `brew install neovim`
- Replace configuration: `ln -s ~/dotfiles/nvim ~/.config/nvim`
- Install [Packer](https://github.com/wbthomason/packer.nvim) for plugins
- Install plugins: `nvim +PackerSync +TSUpdate`

## Alacritty
Replace configuration: `ln -s ~/dotfiles/alacritty ~/.config/alacritty`

issues:
- [ ] osc notification support, to solve a problem with the terminal icon jumping in the dock
    - https://github.com/alacritty/alacritty/issues/7105
    - https://github.com/alacritty/alacritty/issues/406

## Tmux
Tmux is needed for Alacritty to support tabs and splits.

- Install Tmux `brew install tmux`
- Install [Plugin Manager](https://github.com/tmux-plugins/tpm)
- Install Pluggins: Press prefix + I (capital i, as in Install) 
- Replace configuration: `ln -s ~/dotfiles/tmux/tmux.conf ~/.tmux.conf`

issues:
- [ ] notifications make an icon at the dock jump
- [ ] Prevent from copying to clipboard on mouse select
- [ ] Copy selected text on CMD+C

## Wezterm
Replace configuration: `ln -s ~/dotfiles/wezterm/wezterm.lua ~/.wezterm.lua`

issues:
- [ ] font rendering: https://github.com/wez/wezterm/issues/2523
- [ ] opt+key bug: https://github.com/wez/wezterm/discussions/4739
- [ ] strikethrough text support
- [ ] error text highlighting 
- [ ] do not copy on select

## Kitty
Replace configuration: `ln -s ~/dotfiles/kitty ~/.config/kitty`

issues:
- the maintainer is a character https://github.com/kovidgoyal/kitty/pull/3544

## Ghostty
Replace configuration: `ln -s ~/dotfiles/ghostty ~/.config/ghostty`

issues:
- none

## Neovide
issues:
- [ ] MacOS tabs https://github.com/neovide/neovide/issues/2378
- [X] winbar glitches while scrolling https://github.com/neovide/neovide/issues/2406
- [ ] modal borders and lines look broken

## How to add a new NVim plugin
1. Create a new file `nvim/lua/plugins/{plugin-name}.lua`
2. The file should return [Packer](https://github.com/wbthomason/packer.nvim) formatted string or a table, with a path to the plugin. eg: `return { 'mrded/{plugin-name}' }` 
3. Save and update Packer, to apply changes: `nvim +PackerSync +TSUpdate`

## Terminal requirements
- font Monaco support
- font strikethrough support
    - to test: `echo -e "\e[9mstrikethrough\e[0m"`
    - https://www.reddit.com/r/neovim/comments/14ye7a5/how_could_i_enable_strikethrough_render_in_nvim/
- Grovbox theme support
- Tabs and Splits (possibly without xterm)
- iTerm 2 shortcuts 
- Config in a file
- Possibility to select text without copying
- Copy on CMD+C

## Gotchas
- When changing plugin's settings, you need to run `nvim +PackerSync +TSUpdate`, as settings are cached.
- Plugin dependencies (eg language servers) should install automagically by [Mason](https://github.com/williamboman/mason.nvim), if not - troubleshoot that direction.

## Troubleshooting

### nvim
neovim may not install plugins propperly. Try to running `:UpdateRemotePlugins`

### treesitter
treesitter may give errors. Try running `:TSUpdate` to update languages.

## Tools
- `./print_nvim_config.sh | pbcopy` to copy all the configuration into clipboard, to show it to the ChatGPT or someone else.
- `source ./zsh/nvm-auto-switch.zsh` to automatically switch Node.js versions based on the `.nvmrc` file in the current directory.

Commit message:

add a script to kill any process running on the specified port

README.md, after:

# Dmitry Demenchuk does dotfiles

The single dot that has it all.

Clone the repository into **~/dotfiles**: `git clone https://github.com/mrded/dotfiles.git ~/dotfiles`

## NeoVim

- Install Neovim `brew install neovim`
- Replace configuration: `ln -s ~/dotfiles/nvim ~/.config/nvim`
- Install [Packer](https://github.com/wbthomason/packer.nvim) for plugins
- Install plugins: `nvim +PackerSync +TSUpdate`

## Alacritty

Replace configuration: `ln -s ~/dotfiles/alacritty ~/.config/alacritty`

issues:

- [ ] osc notification support, to solve a problem with the terminal icon jumping in the dock
  - https://github.com/alacritty/alacritty/issues/7105
  - https://github.com/alacritty/alacritty/issues/406

## Tmux

Tmux is needed for Alacritty to support tabs and splits.

- Install Tmux `brew install tmux`
- Install [Plugin Manager](https://github.com/tmux-plugins/tpm)
- Install Pluggins: Press prefix + I (capital i, as in Install)
- Replace configuration: `ln -s ~/dotfiles/tmux/tmux.conf ~/.tmux.conf`

issues:

- [ ] notifications make an icon at the dock jump
- [ ] Prevent from copying to clipboard on mouse select
- [ ] Copy selected text on CMD+C

## Wezterm

Replace configuration: `ln -s ~/dotfiles/wezterm/wezterm.lua ~/.wezterm.lua`

issues:

- [ ] font rendering: https://github.com/wez/wezterm/issues/2523
- [ ] opt+key bug: https://github.com/wez/wezterm/discussions/4739
- [ ] strikethrough text support
- [ ] error text highlighting
- [ ] do not copy on select

## Kitty

Replace configuration: `ln -s ~/dotfiles/kitty ~/.config/kitty`

issues:

- the maintainer is a character https://github.com/kovidgoyal/kitty/pull/3544

## Ghostty

Replace configuration: `ln -s ~/dotfiles/ghostty ~/.config/ghostty`

issues:

- none

## Neovide

issues:

- [ ] MacOS tabs https://github.com/neovide/neovide/issues/2378
- [x] winbar glitches while scrolling https://github.com/neovide/neovide/issues/2406
- [ ] modal borders and lines look broken

## How to add a new NVim plugin

1. Create a new file `nvim/lua/plugins/{plugin-name}.lua`
2. The file should return [Packer](https://github.com/wbthomason/packer.nvim) formatted string or a table, with a path to the plugin. eg: `return { 'mrded/{plugin-name}' }`
3. Save and update Packer, to apply changes: `nvim +PackerSync +TSUpdate`

## Terminal requirements

- font Monaco support
- font strikethrough support
  - to test: `echo -e "\e[9mstrikethrough\e[0m"`
  - https://www.reddit.com/r/neovim/comments/14ye7a5/how_could_i_enable_strikethrough_render_in_nvim/
- Grovbox theme support
- Tabs and Splits (possibly without xterm)
- iTerm 2 shortcuts
- Config in a file
- Possibility to select text without copying
- Copy on CMD+C

## Gotchas

- When changing plugin's settings, you need to run `nvim +PackerSync +TSUpdate`, as settings are cached.
- Plugin dependencies (eg language servers) should install automagically by [Mason](https://github.com/williamboman/mason.nvim), if not - troubleshoot that direction.

## Troubleshooting

### nvim

neovim may not install plugins propperly. Try to running `:UpdateRemotePlugins`

### treesitter

treesitter may give errors. Try running `:TSUpdate` to update languages.

## Tools

- `source ./zsh/nvm-auto-switch.zsh` to automatically switch Node.js versions based on the `.nvmrc` file in the current directory.
- `./scripts/killport.sh <port>` - Kill any process running on the specified port.
